The UML is not a soft-ware development process; it is a visual modeling language. However, the UML can play a key role in the development process.analysis, design, coding, and deployment. This was often called the waterfall process, because the sequence ran in one direction, from analysis to deployment “The Big Picture,” object-oriented programming itself was created to solve some of the problems inherent in the development of large programs. Certainly OOP helps the design process because objects in the program correspond with objects in the user’s world. However, OOP by itself does not tell us what the program should do; it comes into play only after the project’s goals have been determined. We need an initial phase that focuses on the program’s users and captures their needs. Once this is accomplished we can translate it into an object-oriented program design. But how do we perform the initial step of figuring out what the users really need?
Modern Processes A large number of software development processes have appeared in recent years. They specify the steps in the process and the way clients, analysts, designers and programmers should work together. To date, no one system has reached the sort of universal acceptance that the UML has in the field of modeling languages. In fact, many experts do not believe that any one development process can be appropriate in every situation. Even when a particular process is chosen, it may need to be modified more or less drastically, depending on the project it is applied to. However, as an example of a modern development process, we will examine some of the high-lights of what we’ll call the Unified Process.
The Unified Process is divided into four phases:
• Inception
• Elaboration
• Construction
• Transition
Use Case Modeling:
Use case modeling allows future users of a software system as much input as possible into its design. It uses the vocabulary of the users, not programmers. This focus on users means that the initial specification of the program can be understood both by its users and by the software engineers designing it. There are two main entities in the use case approach: actors and use cases.
Actors:
An actor is (usually) a person who will use the system we are designing.
Use Cases:
A use case is a specific task, usually initiated by an actor.
Scenarios:
A use case usually consists of a number of scenarios. The use case specifies a goal, while a scenario represents a particular outcome when attempting to reach that goal.
In the use case diagram, lines, called associations, connect actors with use cases.
Use Case Descriptions:
The use case diagram does not have room for detailed descriptions of individual use cases, so these must be supplied separately. Sometimes two columns are used, with the actor’s actions in one column and the system’s response in another. A more formal version might include such details as preconditions, postconditions, and a detailed sequence of steps. 
A UML diagram called an activity diagram, which is a form of flowchart, is sometimes used to show graphically the sequence of steps in a use case.
From Use Cases to Classes:
When the actors and use cases have been identified, the development process moves from the elaboration to the construction phase. The emphasis shifts from the users to the developers. Our first concern is to develop the classes that will be used in the program.
A UML class diagram can be used to show classes and their relationships. A use case is realized by a sequence of messages between objects. We can use another UML diagram, an interaction diagram, to detail such a sequence.
The Programming Problem Let’s suppose that you’re an independent programmer, and you’re approached by a potential customer whose name is Beverly Smith. Beverly is a small-time landlord: She owns an apartment building with 12 units. She wants you to write a program that will make it easier for her to record data and print reports regarding the finances of the apartment building. If you and Beverly can agree on payment, schedule, and the overall purpose of the program, you’ve completed the inception part of the development process.
The Elaboration Phase for the LANDLORD Program In the elaboration phase of a major software development project, a group of people, which includes the potential users of the program and the software people designing it, meet to discuss what the program should do.
Use Cases:
• Start the program
• Add a new tenant to the Tenant List
• Input a rent to the Rent Record
• Input an expense to the Expense Record
• Display the Tenant List
• Display the Rent Record
• Display the Expense Record
• Display the Annual Summary
Use Case Descriptions
------
------
------
UML Activity Diagrams:
The UML activity diagram can be used to model use cases. This kind of diagram shows the flow of control from one activity to another. It’s similar to the flowchart, which has been around since the beginning of programming. However, the activity diagram, like other UML diagrams, is more formally specified and has additional capabilities.
From Use Cases to Classes:
The construction phase of our project begins when we begin to design the program. We’ll start by examining the nouns in the use case descriptions, as mentioned earlier.
Listing the Nouns:
Here’s the list of nouns picked out of the use case descriptions:
1. User Interface screen
2. Tenant
3. Tenant Input screen
4. Tenant name
5. Apartment number
6. Tenant row
7. Tenant List
8. Rent payment
9. Rent Input screen
10. Month
11. Rent amount
12. Rent Record
13. Rent row
14. Expense payment
15. Expense Input screen
16. Payee
17. Amount of expense
18. Day
19. Budget category
20. Expense row
21. Expense Record
22. Annual Summary
23. Sum of rents
24. Total expenses by category
25. Balance
Refining the List
For various reasons, many nouns are inappropriate class candidates.
1. User Interface screen
2. Tenant
3. Tenant Input screen
4. Tenant List
5. Rent I nput screen
6. Rent Record
7. Rent row
8. Expense payment
9. Expense Input screen
10. Expense Record
11. Annual Summary
Class Diagram:
Once we have an idea what classes we will need and how they relate to each other, we can create a class diagram.
Sequence Diagrams:
Before starting to code, we might want to understand in more detail the steps involved in each use case. One way to do this is to generate a UML sequence diagram. A sequence diagram is one of two kinds of UML interaction diagrams. The other is the collaboration diagram. Both show how events unfold over time, but the sequence diagram depicts time in a more graphical way.
Sequence Diagram for “Start the Program”
Sequence Diagram for “Display Tenant List”
Sequence Diagram for “Add a New Tenant”
Writing the Code:
Finally, armed with the use case diagram, the detailed use cases, the class diagram, and the sequence diagrams, you can crank up your compiler and start writing the actual code. This is the second part of the construction phase.

